OSDOCS-9565: configuring AWS Outposts postinstallation (#71263)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/aws-outposts-ingress-controller-fix-subnet.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/configuring-aws-outposts.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="aws-outposts-ingress-controller-fix-subnet_{context}"]

> = Ensuring the default Ingress Controller uses the correct subnet

Reviewer: Should this chapter be placed before "Ensuring AWS Load Balancers use the correct subnet" chapter? It's more fundamental component of the cluster than the user's services which may or may not be created.

> When you extend an AWS VPC cluster to an Outpost, you must ensure that the default Ingress Controller uses the cloud-based subnets and not the Outpost subnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you extend an AWS VPC cluster to an Outpost, you must ensure that the default Ingress Controller's publishing load balancer uses the cloud-based subnet(s) and not the Outpost subnet(s).
```

To prevent it from using the Outpost subnet, annotate the default Ingress Controller service with the cloud-based subnets.

[NOTE]
====
Manually ensuring that the default Ingress Controller uses the correct subnets is a workaround for clusters installed with {product-title} {product-version}.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have installed an {product-title} cluster into a custom VPC on AWS.

* You have access to the cluster using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

> * Annotate the publishing Classic Load Balancer service of the default Ingress Controller with the cloud-based subnets by running the following command:

Reviewer: In most of the OpenShift clusters the default ingress controller's load balancer has more than 1 subnet (1 for each availability zone) for the purpose of higher availability. However it's not strictly necessary as the CLB can be created with 1 subnet too.
```suggestion
* Annotate the publishing service of the default Ingress Controller with the cloud-based subnet(s) by running the following command:
```

Author: ACK - we don't use `noun(s)`, but can use "any" to accomplish the same effect.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress \
  annotate --overwrite svc router-default \

>   service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-subnets=<aws_subnet_1>,<aws_subnet_2> # <1>

Author: yep! didn't recognize that one but def want the full name. Thanks!

[NOTE]
====
Manually ensuring that the default Ingress Controller uses the correct subnets is a workaround for clusters installed with {product-title} {product-version}.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have installed an {product-title} cluster into a custom VPC on AWS.

* You have access to the cluster using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

* Annotate the publishing Classic Load Balancer service of the default Ingress Controller with the cloud-based subnets by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress \
  annotate --overwrite svc router-default \
  service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-subnets=<aws_subnet_1>,<aws_subnet_2>  # <1>
----
<1> Specify the cloud-based subnets.

//Unsure if applicable here:
// . If the cloud-based subnets are private, add an annotation for private subnets by running the following command:
// +
// [source,terminal]
// ----
// $ oc -n openshift-ingress \
//   annotate --overwrite svc router-default \
//   service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-internal: "true"

> // ----

Author: Andrey: not applicable (will remove)
